_______________________________________
    Meeting Prep @ Sun 24.01.21 
_______________________________________
    1. No prep was required as we have done the prep for PI_9 before hand

_______________________________________
    Meeting notes
_______________________________________
    * 90% of intended (30) reports are working now. Savit to provide approval 
    * The meeting went very well, nothing major came out   
    * Explained to Vijay (SRE) that I will need help from them on 
        . GL Schema partitioning
        . GL Inquiry to adopt in Orbit dashboards
        . ERP Interface remediation

    What went well:
        . Business got transparency and a sense of inclusiveness
        . They felt they are in control of their budget
        . We did not waste time, when it was done, we move forward

    What did not go well:
        . Initially they were unclear on the backlog vs. Features. We should present sprint and non_sprint related items
        . Some of the dependencies we could discuss internally
        . P&L participated in the sessions _ but agreed to the plans

_______________________________________
    Actions
_______________________________________
    No actions identified

